Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to look at let's and Conte's in a little bit more detail.
So earlier we saw that if we set up a variable and we declare it as a constant then we can't change
it.
But what happens if our variable is actually going to be an object so let's do first name and give this
person a first name and then let's do last name and give this person our last name.
So there we go.
So now we've got an object.
And what do you think is going to happen here.
If I try to update some of those values of that object.
So let's listo friend and we see we've got a first name and last name so we can't redeclare friend as
something else.
So I try to change friend two-Test we're going to get an error but if I try to do friend and if I tried
to do one of the values contained within that object.
So let's update that to Lawrence.
It actually does change.
And then if I go back to friend we see that we update it.
But what's happened here.
Actually I added an extra into there but let's let's just redo that sits.
So that was unintentional but we could also see that we can't update content within our within our object
as well.
So let's update that first name and now when I type out friend then we see that we've got five different
items in there so we've got first name so that's changed from Larry to new We've added in another value
within friend.
And even though it's constant we can update the values within that object.
And this is really useful because for the fact that if we're declaring our object we don't want any
other variables overwriting that friend because obviously we want to make use of that.
But we still have the power to make updates to it.
So let me show you one more thing as well.
So we know that we've got objects can contain multiple values and we know that we've got arrays that
can contain multiple values.
So here we're going to contain and create a brain you array.
My my are.
And then we're going to create a function in order to add into that array.
So let's Or let's create a loop and we're going to use.
Let equals zero and we're going to loop through the value of pi.
So let's loop through it 10 times and let's increment i by 1.
And then within here what I want to do is I want to push the value of II into that array and I'll show
you that this is still going to work.
So even though we've declared it with LET.
We can add in content into their.
So let's leave this out.
I.
And then what we'll do is we'll console log that value.
So it's to mine are and we're just console like that it.
So refresh our browser and we can see that we get nice and neatly 0 all the way to 9.
So let's go ahead and update this to Konst and refresh and we see that we get the same result.
So same thing that we saw with objects that we can update our arrays even though we've set them out
as constants.
And even if we're trying to update.
So we've updated our loop here to let.
So that basically means that none of these are actually being held within the Windows object that they're
all being held locally within where we're declaring these.
So if we had all of these sitting within a function then we can simply declare them and make use of
them within the block of code that we're executing them.
So what I want you to do now is try it for yourself.
So go ahead and create an object.
Make some updates to it and then also create an array and make some updates to the values contained
within the array.
And then lastly throw you throw an error by trying to update and reassign some type of new value to
them.
So for instance for friend try to reassign a new value somewhere else within your script and see what
happens.
So you get comfortable with using Konst instead of var when you're declaring objects and arrays that
you want to stay constant within your script.